.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

[Changelogs]: # (Your PR should contain a detailed changelog of notable changes, titled and categorized appropriately. This includes, new features, sprites, sounds, balance changes, admin tools, map edits, removals, big refactors, config changes, hosting changes and important fixes. An example changelog has been provided below for you to edit. If you need additional help, read https://github.com/tgstation/tgstation/wiki/Changelogs)

:cl: optional name here
add: Added new things
add: Added more things
del: Removed old things
tweak: tweaked a few things
balance: rebalanced something
fix: fixed a few things
soundadd: added a new sound thingy
sounddel: removed an old sound thingy
imageadd: added some icons and images
imagedel: deleted some icons and images
spellcheck: fixed a few typos
code: changed some code
refactor: refactored some code
config: changed some config setting
admin: messed with admin stuff
server: something server ops should know
/:cl:

[why]: # (Please add a short description [two lines down] of why you think these changes would benefit the game. If you can't justify it in words, it might not be worth adding.)

Commit message:

PR Template Improvements (Now Consistent With Bug Template) (#42482)
* #40942 but for PR Template

* Defaults to using github username

* subject review

* Update PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!-- Write **BELOW** The Headers and **ABOVE** The comments else it may not be viewable. -->
<!-- You can view Contributing.MD for a detailed description of the pull request process. -->

## Changelog
:cl:
add: Added new things
add: Added more things
del: Removed old things
tweak: tweaked a few things
balance: rebalanced something
fix: fixed a few things
soundadd: added a new sound thingy
sounddel: removed an old sound thingy
imageadd: added some icons and images
imagedel: deleted some icons and images
spellcheck: fixed a few typos
code: changed some code
refactor: refactored some code
config: changed some config setting
admin: messed with admin stuff
server: something server ops should know
/:cl:

<!-- Both :cl:'s are required for the changelog to work! You can put your name to the right of the first :cl: if you want to overwrite your GitHub username as author ingame. -->
<!-- You can use multiple of the same prefix (they're only used for the icon ingame) and delete the unneeded ones. Despite some of the tags, changelogs should generally represent how a player might be affected by the changes rather than a summary of the PR's contents. -->
## About The Pull Request

<!-- Describe The Pull Request. Please be sure every change is documented or this can delay review and even discourage maintainers from merging your PR! -->
## Why It's Good For The Game

<!-- Please add a short description of why you think these changes would benefit the game. If you can't justify it in words, it might not be worth adding. -->
