# Component Reference

> Notice: This documentation might be out of date, so always check the source
> code to see the most up-to-date information.

<!--
This table of contents must be manually maintained.
Make sure to add new items to this list if you document new components.
-->

- [General Concepts](#general-concepts)
- [`tgui/components`](#tguicomponents)
  - [`AnimatedNumber`](#animatednumber)
  - [`BlockQuote`](#blockquote)
  - [`Box`](#box)
  - [`Button`](#button)
  - [`Button.Checkbox`](#buttoncheckbox)
  - [`Button.Confirm`](#buttonconfirm)
  - [`Button.Input`](#buttoninput)
  - [`ByondUi`](#byondui)
  - [`Collapsible`](#collapsible)
  - [`ColorBox`](#colorbox)
  - [`Dimmer`](#dimmer)
  - [`Divider`](#divider)
  - [`Dropdown`](#dropdown)
  - [`Flex`](#flex)
  - [`Flex.Item`](#flexitem)
  - [`Grid`](#grid)
  - [`Grid.Column`](#gridcolumn)
  - [`Icon`](#icon)
  - [`Input`](#input)
  - [`Knob`](#knob)
  - [`LabeledControls`](#labeledcontrols)
  - [`LabeledControls.Item`](#labeledcontrolsitem)
  - [`LabeledList`](#labeledlist)
  - [`LabeledList.Item`](#labeledlistitem)
  - [`LabeledList.Divider`](#labeledlistdivider)
  - [`Modal`](#modal)
  - [`NoticeBox`](#noticebox)
  - [`NumberInput`](#numberinput)
  - [`ProgressBar`](#progressbar)
  - [`Section`](#section)
  - [`Slider`](#slider)
  - [`Table`](#table)
  - [`Table.Row`](#tablerow)
  - [`Table.Cell`](#tablecell)
  - [`Tabs`](#tabs)
  - [`Tabs.Tab`](#tabstab)
  - [`Tooltip`](#tooltip)
- [`tgui/layouts`](#tguilayouts)
  - [`Window`](#window)
  - [`Window.Content`](#windowcontent)

## General Concepts

These are the components which you can use for interface construction.
If you have trouble finding the exact prop you need on a component,
please note, that most of these components inherit from other basic
components, such as [Box](#box). This component in particular provides a lot
of styling options for all components, e.g. `color` and `opacity`, thus
it is used a lot in this framework.

**Event handlers.**
Event handlers are callbacks that you can attack to various element to
listen for browser events. Inferno supports camelcase (`onClick`) and
lowercase (`onclick`) event names.

- Camel case names are what's called *synthetic* events, and are the
**preferred way** of handling events in React, for efficiency and
performance reasons. Please read
[Inferno Event Handling](https://infernojs.org/docs/guides/event-handling)
to understand what this is about.
- Lower case names are native browser events and should be used sparingly,
for example when you need an explicit IE8 support. **DO NOT** use
lowercase event handlers unless you really know what you are doing.
- [Button](#button) component does not support the lowercase `onclick` event.
Use the camel case `onClick` instead.

## `tgui/components`

### `AnimatedNumber`

This component provides animations for numeric values.

**Props:**

- `value: number` - Value to animate.
- `initial: number` - Initial value to use in animation when element
first appears. If you set initial to `0` for example, number will always
animate starting from `0`, and if omitted, it will not play an initial
animation.
- `format: value => value` - Output formatter.
  - Example: `value => Math.round(value)`.
- `children: (formattedValue, rawValue) => any` - Pull the animated number to
animate more complex things deeper in the DOM tree.
  - Example: `(_, value) => <Icon rotation={value} />`

### `BlockQuote`

Just a block quote, just like this example in markdown:

> Here's an example of a block quote.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)

### `Box`

The Box component serves as a wrapper component for most of the CSS utility
needs. It creates a new DOM element, a `<div>` by default that can be changed
with the `as` property. Let's say you want to use a `<span>` instead:

```jsx
<Box as="span" m={1}>
  <Button />
</Box>
```

This works great when the changes can be isolated to a new DOM element.
For instance, you can change the margin this way.

However, sometimes you have to target the underlying DOM element.
For instance, you want to change the text color of the button. The Button
component defines its own color. CSS inheritance doesn't help.

To workaround this problem, the Box children accept a render props function.
This way, `Button` can pull out the `className` generated by the `Box`.

```jsx
<Box color="primary">
  {props => <Button {...props} />}
</Box>
```

**Box Units**

`Box` units, like width, height and margins can be defined in two ways:

- By plain numbers
  - 1 unit equals `1rem` for width, height and positioning properties.
  - 1 unit equals `0.5rem` for margins and paddings.
- By strings with proper CSS units
  - For example: `100px`, `2em`, `1rem`, `100%`, etc.

If you need more precision, you can always use fractional numbers.

Default font size (`1rem`) is equal to `12px`.

**Props:**

- `as: string` - The component used for the root node.
- `color: string` - Applies an atomic `color-<name>` class to the element.
  - See `styles/atomic/color.scss`.
- `width: number` - Box width.
- `minWidth: number` - Box minimum width.
- `maxWidth: number` - Box maximum width.
- `height: number` - Box height.
- `minHeight: number` - Box minimum height.
- `maxHeight: number` - Box maximum height.
- `fontSize: number` - Font size.
- `fontFamily: string` - Font family.
- `lineHeight: number` - Directly affects the height of text lines.
Useful for adjusting button height.
- `inline: boolean` - Forces the `Box` to appear as an `inline-block`,
or in other words, makes the `Box` flow with the text instead of taking
all available horizontal space.
- `m: number` - Margin on all sides.
- `mx: number` - Horizontal margin.
- `my: number` - Vertical margin.
- `mt: number` - Top margin.
- `mb: number` - Bottom margin.
- `ml: number` - Left margin.
- `mr: number` - Right margin.
- `p: number` - Padding on all sides.
- `px: number` - Horizontal padding.
- `py: number` - Vertical padding.
- `pt: number` - Top padding.
- `pb: number` - Bottom padding.
- `pl: number` - Left padding.
- `pr: number` - Right padding.
- `opacity: number` - Opacity, from 0 to 1.
- `bold: boolean` - Make text bold.
- `italic: boolean` - Make text italic.
- `nowrap: boolean` - Stops text from wrapping.
- `textAlign: string` - Align text inside the box.
  - `left` (default)
  - `center`
  - `right`
- `position: string` - A direct mapping to `position` CSS property.
  - `relative` - Relative positioning.
  - `absolute` - Absolute positioning.
  - `fixed` - Fixed positioning.
- `color: string` - An alias to `textColor`.
- `textColor: string` - Sets text color.
  - `#ffffff` - Hex format
  - `rgba(255, 255, 255, 1)` - RGB format
  - `purple` - Applies an atomic `color-<name>` class to the element.
  See `styles/color-map.scss`.
- `backgroundColor: string` - Sets background color.
  - `#ffffff` - Hex format
  - `rgba(255, 255, 255, 1)` - RGB format

### `Button`

Buttons allow users to take actions, and make choices, with a single click.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `fluid: boolean` - Fill all available horizontal space.
- `icon: string` - Adds an icon to the button.
- `color: string` - Button color, as defined in `variables.scss`.
  - There is also a special color `transparent` - makes the button
  transparent and slightly dim when inactive.
- `disabled: boolean` - Disables and greys out the button.
- `selected: boolean` - Activates the button (gives it a green color).
- `tooltip: string` - A fancy, boxy tooltip, which appears when hovering
over the button.
- `tooltipPosition: string` - Position of the tooltip.
  - `top` - Show tooltip above the button.
  - `bottom` (default) - Show tooltip below the button.
  - `left` - Show tooltip on the left of the button.
  - `right` - Show tooltip on the right of the button.
- `ellipsis: boolean` - If button width is constrained, button text will
be truncated with an ellipsis. Be careful however, because this prop breaks
the baseline alignment.
- `title: string` - A native browser tooltip, which appears when hovering
over the button.
- `content/children: any` - Content to render inside the button.
- `onClick: function` - Called when element is clicked.

### `Button.Checkbox`

A ghetto checkbox, made entirely using existing Button API.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Button](#button)
- `checked: boolean` - Boolean value, which marks the checkbox as checked.

### `Button.Confirm`

A button with a an extra confirmation step, using native button component.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Button](#button)
- `confirmMessage: string` - Text to display after first click; defaults to "Confirm?"
- `confirmColor: string` - Color to display after first click; defaults to "bad"

### `Button.Input`

A button that turns into an input box after the first click. Turns back into a
button after the user hits enter, defocuses, or hits escape. Enter and defocus
commit, while escape cancels.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `fluid`: fill availible horizontal space
- `onCommit: (e, value) => void`: function that is called after the user
defocuses the input or presses enter
- `currentValue: string`: default string to display when the input is shown
- `defaultValue: string`: default value emitted if the user leaves the box
blank when hitting enter or defocusing. If left undefined, will cancel the
change on a blank defocus/enter

### `ByondUi`

Displays a BYOND UI element on top of the browser, and leverages browser's
layout engine to position it just like any other HTML element. It is
especially useful if you want to display a secondary game map in your
interface.

Example (button):

```
<ByondUi
  params={{
    id: 'test_button', // optional, can be auto-generated
    parent: config.window,
    type: 'button',
    text: 'Hello, world!',
  }} />
```

Example (map):

```
<ByondUi
  params={{
    id: 'test_map',
    parent: config.window,
    type: 'map',
  }} />
```

It supports a full set of `Box` properties for layout purposes.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `params: any` - An object with parameters, which are directly passed to
the `winset` proc call. You can find a full reference of these parameters
in [BYOND controls and parameters guide](https://secure.byond.com/docs/ref/skinparams.html).

### `Collapsible`

Displays contents when open, acts as a fluid button when closed. Click to
toggle, closed by default.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `children: any` - What is collapsed when closed
- `title: string` - Text to display on the button for collapsing
- `color: string` - Color of the button; see [Button](#button)
- `buttons: any` - Buttons or other content to render inline with the button

### `ColorBox`

Displays a 1-character wide colored square. Can be used as a status indicator,
or for visually representing a color.

If you want to set a background color on an element, use a plain
[Box](#box) instead.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `color: string` - Color of the box.

### `Dimmer`

Dims surrounding area to emphasize content placed inside.

Content is automatically centered inside the dimmer.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)

### `Divider`

Draws a horizontal or vertical line, dividing a section into groups.
Works like the good old `<hr>` element, but it's fancier.

**Props:**

- `vertical: boolean` - Divide content vertically.
- `hidden: boolean` - Divider can divide content without creating a dividing
line.

### `Dropdown`

A simple dropdown box component. Lets the user select from a list of options
and displays selected entry.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `options: string[]` - An array of strings which will be displayed in the
dropdown when open
- `selected: string` - Currently selected entry
- `width: number` - Width of dropdown button and resulting menu
- `over: boolean` - dropdown renders over instead of below
- `color: string` - color of dropdown button
- `onClick: (e) => void` - Called when dropdown button is clicked
- `onSelected: (value) => void` - Called when a value is picked from the list, `value` is the value that was picked

### `Flex`

Quickly manage the layout, alignment, and sizing of grid columns, navigation,
components, and more with a full suite of responsive flexbox utilities.

If you are new to or unfamiliar with flexbox, we encourage you to read this
[CSS-Tricks flexbox guide](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/).

Consists of two elements: `<Flex>` and `<Flex.Item>`. Both of them provide
the most straight-forward mapping to flex CSS properties as possible.

One of the most basic usage of flex, is to align certain elements
to the left, and certain elements to the right:

```jsx
<Flex>
  <Flex.Item>
    Button description
  </Flex.Item>
  <Flex.Item grow={1} />
  <Flex.Item>
    <Button content="Perform an action" />
  </Flex.Item>
</Flex>
```

Flex item with `grow` property serves as a "filler", to separate the other
two flex items as far as possible from each other.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `spacing: number` - Spacing between flex items, in integer units
(1 unit - 0.5em). Does not directly relate to a flex css property
(adds a modifier class under the hood), and only integer numbers are
supported.
- `inline: boolean` - Makes flexbox container inline, with similar behavior
to an `inline` property on a `Box`.
- `direction: string` - This establishes the main-axis, thus defining the
direction flex items are placed in the flex container.
  - `row` (default) - left to right.
  - `row-reverse` - right to left.
  - `column` - top to bottom.
  - `column-reverse` - bottom to top.
- `wrap: string` - By default, flex items will all try to fit onto one line.
You can change that and allow the items to wrap as needed with this property.
  - `nowrap` (default) - all flex items will be on one line
  - `wrap` - flex items will wrap onto multiple lines, from top to bottom.
  - `wrap-reverse` - flex items will wrap onto multiple lines from bottom to top.
- `align: string` - Default alignment of all children.
  - `stretch` (default) - stretch to fill the container.
  - `start` - items are placed at the start of the cross axis.
  - `end` - items are placed at the end of the cross axis.
  - `center` - items are centered on the cross axis.
  - `baseline` - items are aligned such as their baselines align.
- `justify: string` - This defines the alignment along the main axis.
It helps distribute extra free space leftover when either all the flex
items on a line are inflexible, or are flexible but have reached their
maximum size. It also exerts some control over the alignment of items
when they overflow the line.
  - `flex-start` (default) - items are packed toward the start of the
  flex-direction.
  - `flex-end` - items are packed toward the end of the flex-direction.
  - `space-between` - items are evenly distributed in the line; first item is
  on the start line, last item on the end line
  - `space-around` - items are evenly distributed in the line with equal space
  around them. Note that visually the spaces aren't equal, since all the items
  have equal space on both sides. The first item will have one unit of space
  against the container edge, but two units of space between the next item
  because that next item has its own spacing that applies.
  - `space-evenly` - items are distributed so that the spacing between any two
  items (and the space to the edges) is equal.
  - TBD (not all properties are supported in IE11).

### `Flex.Item`

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `order: number` - By default, flex items are laid out in the source order.
However, the order property controls the order in which they appear in the
flex container.
- `grow: number` - This defines the ability for a flex item to grow if
necessary. It accepts a unitless value that serves as a proportion. It
dictates what amount of the available space inside the flex container the
item should take up. This number is unit-less and is relative to other
siblings.
- `shrink: number` - This defines the ability for a flex item to shrink
if necessary. Inverse of `grow`.
- `basis: string` - This defines the default size of an element before any
flex-related calculations are done. Has to be a length (e.g. `20%`, `5rem`),
an `auto` or `content` keyword.
  - **Important:** IE11 flex is buggy, and auto width/height calculations
  can sometimes end up in a circular dependency. This usually happens, when
  working with tables inside flex (they have wacky internal widths and such).
  Setting basis to `0` breaks the loop and fixes all of the problems.
- `align: string` - This allows the default alignment (or the one specified by
align-items) to be overridden for individual flex items. See: [Flex](#flex).

### `Grid`

> **Deprecated:** This component is no longer recommended due to the variety
> of bugs that come with table-based layouts.
> We recommend using [Flex](#flex) instead.

Helps you to divide horizontal space into two or more equal sections.
It is essentially a single-row `Table`, but with some extra features.

Example:

```jsx
<Grid>
  <Grid.Column>
    <Section title="Section 1">
      Hello world!
    </Section>
  </Grid.Column>
  <Grid.Column size={2}>
    <Section title="Section 2">
      Hello world!
    </Section>
  </Grid.Column>
</Grid>
```

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Table](#table)

### `Grid.Column`

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Table.Cell](#tablecell)
- `size: number` (default: 1) - Size of the column relative to other columns.

### `Icon`

Renders one of the FontAwesome icons of your choice.

```jsx
<Icon name="plus" />
```

To smoothen the transition from v4 to v5, we have added a v4 semantic to
transform names with `-o` suffixes to FA Regular icons. For example:
- `square` will get transformed to `fas square`
- `square-o` will get transformed to `far square`

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `name: string` - Icon name.
- `size: number` - Icon size. `1` is normal size, `2` is two times bigger.
Fractional numbers are supported.
- `rotation: number` - Icon rotation, in degrees.
- `spin: boolean` - Whether an icon should be spinning. Good for load
indicators.

### `Input`

A basic text input, which allow users to enter text into a UI.

> Input does not support custom font size and height due to the way
> it's implemented in CSS. Eventually, this needs to be fixed.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `value: string` - Value of an input.
- `placeholder: string` - Text placed into Input box when it's empty,
otherwise nothing. Clears automatically when focused.
- `fluid: boolean` - Fill all available horizontal space.
- `selfClear: boolean` - Clear after hitting enter, as well as remain focused
when this happens. Useful for things like chat inputs.
- `onChange: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires when you commit
the text by either unfocusing the input box, or by pressing the Enter key.
- `onInput: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires on every keypress.

### `Knob`

A radial control, which allows dialing in precise values by dragging it
up and down.

Single click opens an input box to manually type in a number.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `animated: boolean` - Animates the value if it was changed externally.
- `bipolar: boolean` - Knob can be bipolar or unipolar.
- `size: number` - Relative size of the knob. `1` is normal size, `2` is two
times bigger. Fractional numbers are supported.
- `color: string` - Color of the outer ring around the knob.
- `value: number` - Value itself, controls the position of the cursor.
- `unit: string` - Unit to display to the right of value.
- `minValue: number` - Lowest possible value.
- `maxValue: number` - Highest possible value.
- `fillValue: number` - If set, this value will be used to set the fill
percentage of the outer ring independently of the main value.
- `ranges: { color: [from, to] }` - Applies a `color` to the outer ring around
the knob based on whether the value lands in the range between `from` and `to`.
See an example of this prop in [ProgressBar](#progressbar).
- `step: number` (default: 1) - Adjust value by this amount when
dragging the input.
- `stepPixelSize: number` (default: 1) - Screen distance mouse needs
to travel to adjust value by one `step`.
- `format: value => value` - Format value using this function before
displaying it.
- `suppressFlicker: number` - A number in milliseconds, for which the input
will hold off from updating while events propagate through the backend.
Default is about 250ms, increase it if you still see flickering.
- `onChange: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires when you release
the input, or successfully enter a number.
- `onDrag: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires about every 500ms
when you drag the input up and down, on release and on manual editing.

### `LabeledControls`

LabeledControls is a horizontal grid, that is designed to hold various
controls, like [Knobs](#knob) or small [Buttons](#button). Every item in
this grid is labeled at the bottom.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `children: LabeledControls.Item` - Items to render.

### `LabeledControls.Item`

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `label: string` - Item label.

### `LabeledList`

LabeledList is a continuous, vertical list of text and other content, where
every item is labeled. It works just like a two column table, where first
column is labels, and second column is content.

```jsx
<LabeledList>
  <LabeledList.Item label="Item">
    Content
  </LabeledList.Item>
</LabeledList>
```

If you want to have a button on the right side of an item (for example,
to perform some sort of action), there is a way to do that:

```jsx
<LabeledList>
  <LabeledList.Item
    label="Item"
    buttons={(
      <Button content="Click me!" />
    )}>
    Content
  </LabeledList.Item>
</LabeledList>
```

**Props:**

- `children: LabeledList.Item` - Items to render.

### `LabeledList.Item`

**Props:**

- `label: string` - Item label.
- `color: string` - Sets the color of the text.
- `buttons: any` - Buttons to render aside the content.
- `content/children: any` - Content of this labeled item.

### `LabeledList.Divider`

Adds some empty space between LabeledList items.

Example:

```jsx
<LabeledList>
  <LabeledList.Item label="Foo">
    Content
  </LabeledList.Item>
  <LabeledList.Divider size={1} />
</LabeledList>
```

**Props:**

- `size: number` - Size of the divider.

### `Modal`

A modal window. Uses a [Dimmer](#dimmer) under the hood, and dynamically
adjusts its own size to fit the content you're trying to display.

Must be a direct child of a layout component (e.g. [Window](#window)).

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)

### `NoticeBox`

A notice box, which warns you about something very important.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `info: boolean` - Info box
- `success: boolean` - Success box
- `warning: bolean` - Warning box
- `danger: boolean` - Danger box

### `NumberInput`

A fancy, interactive number input, which you can either drag up and down
to fine tune the value, or single click it to manually type a number.

**Props:**

- `animated: boolean` - Animates the value if it was changed externally.
- `fluid: boolean` - Fill all available horizontal space.
- `value: number` - Value itself.
- `unit: string` - Unit to display to the right of value.
- `minValue: number` - Lowest possible value.
- `maxValue: number` - Highest possible value.
- `step: number` (default: 1) - Adjust value by this amount when
dragging the input.
- `stepPixelSize: number` (default: 1) - Screen distance mouse needs
to travel to adjust value by one `step`.
- `width: string|number` - Width of the element, in `Box` units or pixels.
- `height: string|numer` - Height of the element, in `Box` units or pixels.
- `lineHeight: string|number` - lineHeight of the element, in `Box` units or pixels.
- `fontSize: string|number` - fontSize of the element, in `Box` units or pixels.
- `format: value => value` - Format value using this function before
displaying it.
- `suppressFlicker: number` - A number in milliseconds, for which the input
will hold off from updating while events propagate through the backend.
Default is about 250ms, increase it if you still see flickering.
- `onChange: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires when you release
the input, or successfully enter a number.
- `onDrag: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires about every 500ms
when you drag the input up and down, on release and on manual editing.

### `ProgressBar`

Progress indicators inform users about the status of ongoing processes.

```jsx
<ProgressBar value={0.6} />
```

Usage of `ranges` prop:

```jsx
<ProgressBar
  ranges={{
    good: [0.5, Infinity],
    average: [0.25, 0.5],
    bad: [-Infinity, 0.25],
  }}
  value={0.6} />
```

**Props:**

- `value: number` - Current progress as a floating point number between
`minValue` (default: 0) and `maxValue` (default: 1). Determines the
percentage and how filled the bar is.
- `minValue: number` - Lowest possible value.
- `maxValue: number` - Highest possible value.
- `ranges: { color: [from, to] }` - Applies a `color` to the progress bar
based on whether the value lands in the range between `from` and `to`.
- `color: string` - Color of the progress bar.
- `content/children: any` - Content to render inside the progress bar.

### `Section`

Section is a surface that displays content and actions on a single topic.

They should be easy to scan for relevant and actionable information.
Elements, like text and images, should be placed in them in a way that
clearly indicates hierarchy.

Section can also be titled to clearly define its purpose.

```jsx
<Section title="Cargo">
  Here you can order supply crates.
</Section>
```

If you want to have a button on the right side of an section title
(for example, to perform some sort of action), there is a way to do that:

```jsx
<Section
  title="Cargo"
  buttons={(
    <Button content="Send shuttle" />
  )}>
  Here you can order supply crates.
</Section>
```

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `title: string` - Title of the section.
- `level: number` - Section level in hierarchy. Default is 1, higher number
means deeper level of nesting. Must be an integer number.
- `buttons: any` - Buttons to render aside the section title.
- `content/children: any` - Content of this section.

### `Slider`

A horizontal, [ProgressBar](#progressbar)-like control, which allows dialing
in precise values by dragging it left and right.

Single click opens an input box to manually type in a number.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `animated: boolean` - Animates the value if it was changed externally.
- `color: string` - Color of the slider.
- `value: number` - Value itself, controls the position of the cursor.
- `unit: string` - Unit to display to the right of value.
- `minValue: number` - Lowest possible value.
- `maxValue: number` - Highest possible value.
- `fillValue: number` - If set, this value will be used to set the fill
percentage of the progress bar filler independently of the main value.
- `ranges: { color: [from, to] }` - Applies a `color` to the slider
based on whether the value lands in the range between `from` and `to`.
See an example of this prop in [ProgressBar](#progressbar).
- `step: number` (default: 1) - Adjust value by this amount when
dragging the input.
- `stepPixelSize: number` (default: 1) - Screen distance mouse needs
to travel to adjust value by one `step`.
- `format: value => value` - Format value using this function before
displaying it.
- `suppressFlicker: number` - A number in milliseconds, for which the input
will hold off from updating while events propagate through the backend.
Default is about 250ms, increase it if you still see flickering.
- `onChange: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires when you release
the input, or successfully enter a number.
- `onDrag: (e, value) => void` - An event, which fires about every 500ms
when you drag the input up and down, on release and on manual editing.

### `Table`

A straight forward mapping to a standard html table, which is slightly
simplified (does not need a `<tbody>` tag) and with sane default styles
(e.g. table width is 100% by default).

Example:

```jsx
<Table>
  <Table.Row>
    <Table.Cell bold>
      Hello world!
    </Table.Cell>
    <Table.Cell collapsing color="label">
      Label
    </Table.Cell>
  </Table.Row>
</Table>
```

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `collapsing: boolean` - Collapses table to the smallest possible size.

### `Table.Row`

A straight forward mapping to `<tr>` element.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)

### `Table.Cell`

A straight forward mapping to `<td>` element.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `collapsing: boolean` - Collapses table cell to the smallest possible size,
and stops any text inside from wrapping.

### `Tabs`

Tabs make it easy to explore and switch between different views.

Here is an example of how you would construct a simple tabbed view:

```jsx
<Tabs>
  <Tabs.Tab
    selected={tabIndex === 1}
    onClick={() => setTabIndex(1)}>
    Tab one
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab
    selected={tabIndex === 2}
    onClick={() => setTabIndex(2)}>
    Tab two
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>
<Box>
  Tab selected: {tabIndex}
</Box>
```

Notice that tabs do not contain state. It is your job to track the selected
tab, handle clicks and place tab content where you need it. In return, you get
a lot of flexibility in regards to how you can layout your tabs.

Tabs also support a vertical configuration. This is usually paired with a
[Flex](#flex) component to render tab content to the right.

```jsx
<Flex>
  <Flex.Item>
    <Tabs vertical>
      ...
    </Tabs>
  </Flex.Item>
  <Flex.Item grow={1} basis={0}>
    Tab content.
  </Flex.Item>
</Flex>
```

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Box](#box)
- `vertical: boolean` - Use a vertical configuration, where tabs will be
stacked vertically.
- `children: Tab[]` - This component only accepts tabs as its children.

### `Tabs.Tab`

An individual tab element. Tabs function like buttons, so they inherit
a lot of `Button` props.

**Props:**

- See inherited props: [Button](#button)
- `altSelection` - Whether the tab buttons select via standard select (color
change) or by adding a white indicator to the selected tab.
Intended for usage on interfaces where tab color has relevance.
- `icon: string` - Tab icon.
- `children: any` - Tab text.
- `onClick: function` - Called when element is clicked.

### `Tooltip`

A boxy tooltip from tgui 1. It is very hacky in its current state, and
requires setting `position: relative` on the container.

Please note, that [Button](#button) component has a `tooltip` prop, and
it is recommended to use that prop instead.

Usage:

```jsx
<Box position="relative">
  Sample text.
  <Tooltip
    position="bottom"
    content="Box tooltip" />
</Box>
```

**Props:**

- `position: string` - Tooltip position.
- `content/children: string` - Content of the tooltip. Must be a plain string.
Fragments or other elements are **not** supported.

## `tgui/layouts`

### `Window`

A root-level component, which draws the window chrome, titlebar, resize
handlers, and controls the UI theme. All tgui interfaces must implement
it in one way or another.

Example:

```jsx
<Window
  theme="hackerman"
  resizable>
  <Window.Content scrollable>
    Hello, world!
  </Window.Content>
</Window>
```

**Props:**

- `className: string` - Applies a CSS class to the element.
- `theme: string` - A name of the theme.
  - For a list of themes, see `packages/tgui/styles/themes`.
- `resizable: boolean` - Controls resizability of the window.
- `children: any` - Child elements, which are rendered directly inside the
window. If you use a [Dimmer](#dimmer) or [Modal](#modal) in your UI,
they should be put as direct childs of a Window, otherwise you should be
putting your content into [Window.Content](#windowcontent).

### `Window.Content`

Canonical window content, which is usually the main target of window focus.
Can be scrollable.

**Props:**

- `className: string` - Applies a CSS class to the element.
- `scrollable: boolean` - Shows or hides the scrollbar.
- `children: any` - Main content of your window.
